Unities physics project settings.
In this video we'll cover what are Unity Project settings?
Which of these settings are most important to physics?
And we'll experiment with these settings inside the Unity editor to see some results.
Unity Project Settings.
These are the high level settings we use to adjust major systems in unity, including graphics and physics
To open them.
You use unity edit project settings.
As the screenshot shows, there's a search box that you can filter through the settings.
There's settings organized by category and there's a details pane with the settings themselves that
will interact with the physics project.
Settings for three D include many different properties.
We'll focus on a few key ones.
First of all, gravity.
The default settings are simulating gravity on earth If you want to simulate other planets or different
scenarios in your game, you could tweak the gravity here.
It should be noted that if you change the gravity drastically, you may want to also tweak the default
solver iterations that'll give you more stable results.
You can also set the default material in a later section will cover what physics materials are.
They allow each object in your world to have different properties of bouncy ness and friction.
If you want to set them globally.
Here you can do that and contact pair modes.
This is a setting you might want to tweak if you're moving kinematic Objects in a physics world.
We'll talk about kinematic rigid body properties later.
Other properties that are interesting enable enhanced determinism.
Now this mode will sacrifice some performance, meaning you'll need a more powerful device, but you'll
get better determinism.
Determinism in physics means if you ran the same simulation again and again, you'd get the same result
in some gameplay design.
This is important.
Often it is not.
The layer collision matrix defines which objects in your world collide with which other objects.
Now, by default, in unity, everything collides with everything.
It gives you the visual result and quick feedback you want.
When you're designing a game as an optimization, consider unchecking all of the collisions that don't
occur in your game or that you do not want and you'll get better performance.
Let's take a look at a demo.
We'll look at the three D Pyramids project.
Again.
We'll play with the gravity default material and the layer collision matrix inside Unity.
Let's open up section one, Video two, three, D Pyramid.
We'll be reusing this scene to discuss the project settings in the edit window project settings.
We're able to see all of the project settings for various things inside Unity.
We're interested in the Physics two D for our two D physics, and in this demo the physics for our three
D physics.
Since we have a3d scene, let's go ahead and manipulate that one first.
Let's just start by playing the scene and we can see that these cubes settle on top of each other.
Now let's change it from a negative gravity that simulates Earth to a positive gravity.
This would be something that creates gravity in an upwards direction.
Maybe your game needs that depending on the game mechanics you have.
So we can see that these objects fly up in the air.
It's a little bit silly for most of our examples, but you know, you can control that.
They're inside this little cogwheel you can open this menu and hit reset.
That'll bring all the values in this particular window back to the defaults.
So there we've undone that change.
Now let's look at the default material inside the project window.
We're able to create a physics material.
Now we'll be talking more about this later, but we want to show you that if we create a physic material
and we create it with a lot of bouncy ness, a bouncy ness of one, then we drag that in as the new
default material.
And that says that if there's any objects in the scene that do not already have a material attached,
then this will be the new default material.
So here we're giving them this one that's bouncy.
So let's go ahead and play the scene.
And we can see that at least one of the boxes behaves a little wacky.
Now, if I go ahead and I move this, we can see that the ones that I've moved bounce around the scene
with a high level of bouncy ness.
Now they're all affected evenly.
Just depends on which one I manipulate.
Now, if we stop the scene again and I reset.
We can look down here and we see the layer collision matrix.
This is showing that everything in the project collides with everything by layer.
Layers are set here.
At the top we can designate the layer for each of the objects in our scene so we can see that the cubes
are designated as default.
And inside the environment, we've got floor designated as floor.
So if I go ahead and play the scene.
And then down here I can uncheck floor and default.
And we'll see that Now our default cubes fall directly through the floor.
So you're able to control within that matrix.
Also, note that any changes we make during the scene may be reset once we stop the scene.
Within this window, it depends a bit.
Some of the settings stick and some do not.
So just be conscious of when you make changes.
If you're playing the scene, they might need to be reset after you stop the scene.
The physics project settings in 2D is a separate panel.
Now most of the important properties in 2D are the same ones we just discussed in 3D.
You can see them in the screenshot, but something of note.
Now it is possible that your game project includes both 2D and 3D physics, but it's likely that you
choose one.
So if your game is 2D and you have two D physics, be sure that when you're changing the physics settings,
you're on the right panel here of physics 2D.
In the next video physics, life cycle physics, simulate and time dilation.
We'll look at the structure of unity projects.
We'll see the role of mono behaviors in unity, and we'll look at some code for behaviors regarding
physics.